IN A HOLE IN THE GROUND there lived a hobbit. Not a nasty, dirty, wet 
hole, filled with the ends of worms and an oozy smell, nor yet a dry, 
bare, sandy hole with nothing in it to sit down on or to eat: it was 
a hobbit-hole, and that means comfort.
It had a perfectly round door like a porthole, painted green, 
with a shiny yellow brass knob in the exact middle. The door opened 
on to a tube-shaped hall like a tunnel: a very comfortable tunnel 
without smoke, with panelled walls, and floors tiled and carpeted, 
provided with polished chairs, and lots and lots of pegs for hats and 
coats — the hobbit was fond of visitors. The tunnel wound on and on, 
going fairly but not quite straight into the side of the hill—The 
Hill, as all the people for many miles round called it—and many 
little round doors opened out of it, first on one side and then on 
another. No going upstairs for the hobbit: bedrooms, bathrooms, 
cellars, pantries (lots of these), wardrobes (he had whole rooms 
devoted to clothes), kitchens, dining-rooms, all were on the same 
floor, and indeed on the same passage. The best rooms were all on the 
left-hand side (going in), for these were the only ones to have 
windows, deep-set round windows looking over his garden, and meadows 
beyond, sloping down to the river.
This hobbit was a very well-to-do hobbit, and his name was 
Baggins. The Bagginses had lived in the neighbourhood of The Hill for 
time out of mind, and people considered them very respectable, not 
only because most of them were rich, but also because they never had 
any adventures or did anything unexpected: you could tell what a 
Baggins would say on any question without the bother of asking him. 
This is a story of how a Baggins had an adventure, and found himself 
doing and saying things altogether unexpected. He may have lost the 
neighbours" respect, but he gained—well, you will see whether he 
gained anything in the end.
The mother of our particular hobbit — what is a hobbit? I 
suppose hobbits need some description nowadays, since they have 
become rare and shy of the Big People, as they call us. They are (or 
were) a little people, about half our height, and smaller than the 
bearded dwarves. Hobbits have no beards. There is little or no magic 
about them, except the ordinary everyday sort which helps them to 
disappear quietly and quickly when large stupid folk like you and me 
come blundering along, making a noise like elephants which they can 
hear a mile off. They are inclined to be fat in the stomach; they 
dress in bright colours (chiefly green and yellow); wear no shoes, 
because their feet grow natural leathery soles and thick warm brown 
hair like the stuff on their heads (which is curly); have long clever 
brown fingers, good-natured faces, and laugh deep fruity laughs 
(especially after dinner, which they have twice a day when they can 
get it). Now you know enough to go on with. As I was saying, the 
mother of this hobbit — of Bilbo Baggins, that is — was the famous 
Belladonna Took, one of the three remarkable daughters of the Old 
Took, head of the hobbits who lived across The Water, the small river 
that ran at the foot of The Hill. It was often said (in other 
families) that long ago one of the Took ancestors must have taken a 
fairy wife. That was, of course, absurd, but certainly there was 
still something not entirely hobbitlike about them, and once in a while
members of the Took-clan would go and have adventures. They 
discreetly disappeared, and the family hushed it up; but the fact 
remained that the Tooks were not as respectable as the Bagginses, 
though they were undoubtedly richer.
